[WIP] Create newsletter April 2022 (#2324)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: communications/newsletters/newsletter_33_Apr2022.md

The Turing Way Newsletter: 20 April 2022

> # New chapters, sign up for book dash, the upcoming fireside chat, and (many) other community updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# New chapters, sign up for Book Dash, the upcoming Fireside Chat, and other community updates
```

📚💨 **The next Book Dash is taking place from 16 to 20 May 2022.** [Apply by 21 April](https://forms.gle/9hyQQC5KCsRJC3Yv8) to attend virtually, and let us know if you're interested in hosting a local meet-up.
📣 This month we've published new chapters, hosted workshops, and have many opportunities for collaboration to share with you. **Check out 'community news' and 'opportunities' for more!**
🔥 Join us at our upcoming Fireside Chat on **"Making Virtual Conferencing the Global Default" on 29 April 2022 at 16:00 BST (15:00 UTC)**. Sign up on [Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/318719758377/) and share with others.
☕ **Collaboration Cafe is happening this week on 20 April at 16:00 BST (15:00 UTC)**. ([See details](https://https://hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe))

_Thank you to Malvika Sharan and Esther Plomp for reviewing drafts of this newsletter!_

---

# Upcoming Events

## Tune into our Fireside Chat 🔥

![](https://i.imgur.com/CQFTKn8.jpg)

> **On 29 April 2022, 15:00-16:30 UTC ([in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2022-04-29/15:00)): the next fireside chat will take place on the topic: “Enabling Inclusive Conferencing in the 'Post-Pandemic Era'”.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**On 29 April 2022, 15:00-16:30 UTC ([in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2022-04-29/15:00)): the next Fireside Chat will take place on the topic: “Enabling Inclusive Conferencing in the 'Post-Pandemic Era'”.**
```
```suggestion
**On 29 April 2022, 15:00-16:30 UTC ([in your timezone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2022-04-29/15:00)): the next Fireside Chat will take place on the topic: “Enabling Inclusive Conferencing in the 'Post-Pandemic Era'”.**
```

Over the past 2 and a half years, the COVID-19 pandemic has brought about a reckoning with how scientific research is done across international borders – and how scientific conferencing is done in turn.
Alongside the shift to “working from home”, conferences also moved online.

> But as many events begin to move back to in-person events in the coming months and years, this Fireside chat brings together diverse voices from different projects and communities to talk more about the role of conferences in scientific collaboration, and the trade-offs involved in this shift back to in-person conferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But as many events begin to move back to in-person events in the coming months and years, this Fireside Chat brings together diverse voices from different projects and communities to talk more about the role of conferences in scientific collaboration, and the trade-offs involved in this shift back to in-person conferences.
```

> **Chaired by Anne Lee Steele, this panel will feature insights from Dorothea Hug Peter, Elio Campitelli, Lilly Winfree, Gilbert Beyamba, and Ben Krikler.** These individuaals represent different communities with expertise and insights from organising and participating in international conferences.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Chaired by Anne Lee Steele, this panel will feature insights from Dorothea Hug Peter, Elio Campitelli, Lilly Winfree, Gilbert Beyamba, and Ben Krikler.** These individuals represent different communities with expertise and insights from organising and participating in international conferences.  
```

[Sign up on the Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/fireside-chat-making-virtual-participation-a-global-default-tbc-tickets-318719758377).

## Sign up for our Book Dash 📚💨

**The 7th [Book Dash](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/bookdash.html) event will take place online from 16 to 20 May 2022.** Submit your application via this [Google form](https://forms.gle/uEbu1FJMmdfgGwvW6).

> The Deadline for submission is 21 April 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deadline for submission is 21 April 2022.
```

these are my errors from editing! Thanks for catching :D

> Please reach email me at [asteele@turing.ac.uk](mailto:asteele@turing.ac.uk) if you think you'll need need more time to complete the application.

Reviewer 2: Either "please reach out" or "please email me"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please email me at [asteele@turing.ac.uk](mailto:asteele@turing.ac.uk) if you think you'll need need more time to complete the application.
```

## Join us at Collaboration Cafe ☕

**The next Collaboration Café will is TODAY on 20 April 2022 15:00 BST (UTC+1).**
We will host a room on pre-applications discussions for the upcoming Book Dash.

Please find details and sign up here: [hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe).
You can also sign up to host one of the future Collaboration Cafés on 4 May and 18 May 2022. We hope to see you there!

---

## Community News

### Featured: UK's Goldacre review!

![Alt:Screenshot of Goldacre report page and title](https://i.imgur.com/RFFH8iP.jpg)
_The Goldacre Review was published on 7 April 2022._

We are thrilled and honoured that [_The Turing Way_ was recently featured in the Goldacre Review](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/better-broader-safer-using-health-data-for-research-and-analysis/better-broader-safer-using-health-data-for-research-and-analysis).

> You can read the [full report online](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/better-broader-safer-using-health-data-for-research-and-analysis/better-broader-safer-using-health-data-for-research-and-analysis).

Reviewer 2: Noting that Esther flagged that should probably only use one link as these are both the same...

Reviewer 2: Maybe would be worth writing one sentence on why the Turing Way was highlighted?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_The Turing Way_ was highlighted in the context of addressing *a range of specific challenges around open working, the limits of open code, and the strong positive relationship between open working methods and innovative commercial activity in health data science*.
You can read the [full report online](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/better-broader-safer-using-health-data-for-research-and-analysis/better-broader-safer-using-health-data-for-research-and-analysis).
```

Reviewer: Great idea Arielle, added a sentence.

Led by Dr. Ben Goldacre at the University of Oxford, the report explored how health data can be used efficiently and safely by researchers and for patients within the heathcare sector.
The study was commissioned by the Secretary of State for Health and Care in the UK.
[Learn more about the Goldacre Review](https://www.goldacrereview.org/).

### New chapter: Peer Review!

![Alt:Screenshot of tweet by Lena](https://i.imgur.com/Lfr2AzN.png)
_Lena's tweet about the new chapter!_

Lena Karvovskaya recently published a new chapter in the Turing Way on [Peer Review](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/communication/peer-review/peer-review-overview.html)!
You can find [the new chapter in our Guide for Communication]((https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/communication/)).
This new chapter includes helpful suggestions on what to do before accepting an invitation for peer review, and how to structure writing one.
It also includes tips drawn from work by Rene Bekkers, called ["How to review a paper"](https://renebekkers.wordpress.com/2020/06/24/how-to-review-a-paper/).
Thank you to Lena for writing, and to Vicky Hellon, Emma Karoune, and Achintya Rao for reviews!

> If you'd like to get involved with new and ongoing chapters, please get in touch with us: join a co-working hour, collaboration cafe, or message one of the team directly.

Reviewer 2: Capitalise Collaboration Cafe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to get involved with new and ongoing chapters, please get in touch with us: join a co-working hour, Collaboration Cafe, or message one of the team directly.
```

_Thank you for supporting our community, Esther!_

- Esther Plomp gave a lightning talk presentation called "The Turing Way: Reflection on the community-led development since 2019".
You can view [the slide here](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.19461026).

![Alt:Panelists at Collaborations Workshop](https://i.imgur.com/Mb3sGDO.jpg)
_The panel discussed the implementations of ethics in research and software, and give practical guidance to workshop participants on how ethical considerations can strengthen the work they are doing._

- Arielle Bennett joined a Panel on Ethics, chaired by Laura Carter.
Both are authors and mentors of several chapters in our [Guide for Ethical Research](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/ethical-research/ethical-research.html?highlight=ethics).
[Watch the recording here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AfotGso8rDI)!

![Alt:Screenshots of Slack posts and presentation titles](https://i.imgur.com/NYfMx7q.jpg)
_Congratulations to the participants and presenters at #CW22!_

- Achintya Rao and his team members developed a [Carpentries-style](https://carpentries.org/) lesson on R's bug tracking process, that was awarded third place during the hack day.

> - Malvika Sharan and her team members developed collaboration project idea, "Hi-Brid! Leaving no one behind in hybrid working!" that won second place during the Collaborative Idea's session.

Reviewer 2: "developed the collaboration project idea"

Author: Thanks for catching that, Arielle!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Malvika Sharan and her team members developed a collaborative project idea, "Hi-Brid! Leaving no one behind in hybrid working!" that won second place during the Collaborative Idea's session.
```

![Alt:Screenshot of miro board with virtual stickynotes](https://i.imgur.com/yxPzAxH.jpg)
_Brainstorming the role of tools and research infrastructure within The Turing Way_

Over the past few weeks, Anne has been doing community research within _The Turing Way_, learning from contributors to the project at all stages.
She posts [weekly updates on Friday on this Github Issue](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/issues/2318).
If you'd like to get involved in the process or talk to her more about it, reach out to her directly on Slack or by [email](mailto:asteele@turing.ac.uk).
Alternatively, you can also [schedule time in her calendly](https://calendly.com/aleesteele/).

### Research on Open Governance Models

![Alt:Screenshot of Github pull request](https://i.imgur.com/F30aRgk.jpg)
_Check out the Github issue to learn more about the research done so far on open governance models_

Malvika and Anne are also co-leading an investigation into open research governance practices in the fifth cohort of [Open Life Science program](https://openlifesci.org/) (OLS-5).
This research will inform the next stage of mature governance structure in _The Turing Way_.

> We would love to involve members of our community in this research as well as , please comment on [Pull Request #31 on OLS-5 Github](https://github.com/open-life-science/ols-5/issues/31) or reach out to us on Slack directly.

Reviewer 2: "as well as...." phrase feels unfinished

Author: Thanks for catching that1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would love to involve members of our community in this research, please comment on [Pull Request #31 on OLS-5 Github](https://github.com/open-life-science/ols-5/issues/31) or reach out to us on Slack directly.
```

Again that was me! I did some editing and for sure got distracted.

If participating in _The Turing Way_ community for the first time, we encourage you to first participate in a Collaboration Café or other community events shared in this newsletter (also see: [bit.ly/turingway](http://bit.ly/turingway)).

This application will take 20-30 minutes to complete.
You can use the [template document](https://tinyurl.com/tw-bookdash-template) to prepare your draft.
If you'd like to work with someone on drafting your application, please join us at Collaboration Cafe.
Don't hesitate to reach out – we're here to give you the support you need.

### Join us at Collaboration Cafe ☕

**The next Collaboration Café will is on 04 May 2022 15:00 BST (UTC+1).**
Please find details and sign up here: [hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe](https://hackmd.io/@turingway/collaboration-cafe).
You can also sign up to host one of the future Collaboration Cafés on 4 May and 18 May 2022. We hope to see you there!
Due to Book Dash in the third week of May, we won't be hosting a Collaboration Café on that week.

> #### Community Share-Outs on 20 May
> 
> On 20 May 2022, on the last day of Book Dash, we will host two [Community Share Out and Contributor Celebrations Events](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/bookdash/bookdash-events.html#community-share-outs-contributor-celebration)
> This is a public event for folks interested to learn about The Turing Way, seeing what recent updates have been made in the project and celebrating the incredible work of our contributors.
> You can sign up to attend one or both sessions on [Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/the-turing-way-community-share-out-and-contributor-celebrations-may-2022-tickets-323373307267).
> Our Book Dash attendees will showcase their contributions to the book, share what they are working on and invite collaborations.
> We will also give an early preview of new set of illustrations as well as launch the new version of _The Turing Way_ book.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Community Share-Outs on 20 May

On 20 May 2022, the last day of Book Dash, we will host two [Community Share Out and Contributor Celebrations Events](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/bookdash/bookdash-events.html#community-share-outs-contributor-celebration)
This is a public event for folks interested to learn about The Turing Way, seeing what recent updates have been made in the project and celebrating the incredible work of our contributors.
You are invited to attend one or both sessions, please sign up on [Eventbrite](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/the-turing-way-community-share-out-and-contributor-celebrations-may-2022-tickets-323373307267).
We will also give an early preview of new set of illustrations as well as launch the new version of _The Turing Way_ book.
```
